So as you know, our game is almost complete and we just can't see the score, which means we can't
know how many enemies we've defeated.
So we're going to display our score on the game screen, not the console.
So let's look for a variable we created before, which is score.
Here it is.
And initiates at zero.
We called it inside collision so as to increase the score every time we shoot an enemy and then it is
printed on the console.
So we'll remove this because we don't want it to see it on the console, but on the screen.
So let's go back to the score variable and let's create another one named my underscore font, which
will store a PI game tool named font dot font.
This requires two parameters a font name and a size.
So it a string.
We'll write free sans bold dot tbtf, which is the font I chose and then the size which is 32.
This is the only built in font in pi game.
So in a couple of minutes I'm going to show you how to add any font you want.
But for now we'll have a variable containing all this information, so our score will need more variables.
We want to replace it somewhere on the screen.
So we're going to add some coordinates to it.
So let's create the variable named text X to store coordinate x, which can be ten.
And this way the score will be on the left side of the screen, but not too close to the edge.
So let's add text Y and ten as well.
So it is close to the top edge, but not too close.
So now we have to define a function which will be described as show score function and it will be named
show score.
When called, this function will require coordinates X and y.
So now we have to add information to this function.
If we did it the traditional way, we'd use methods like screen dot blip.
But it's different with fonts and I'll show you what we have here is not an image as in the case of
enemies, bullets and background.
We have to create a text so we'll create a create a variable named text and we'll add all the information
on that text and then it will be displayed on the screen.
So text will store everything that's inside font.
So let's call font dot.
And here we have some options.
The first one is render, which requires a couple of parameters.
First, we need a text, so we'll create a string little rule that says Score colon space and then we
make a call to the score variable we're created before.
This is the text we're going to read on the screen, add a comma to continue with the next value and
we have to decide if it will be an alias we enter.
True, then it requires a color, so we're going to employ the g b values in order to choose what to
do.
So each color needs the maximum value.
So let's enter 255, 255 and 255.
So if you prefer another color, that's up to you.
Once we create our text, we can call screen dot BLITT in order to display it.
So we need the image name, which is text.
Now we have to enter a tuple with coordinates, so we put x and y which are the values assigned to the
function.
When it's called, we have our function ready and now we have to invoke it somewhere.
So of course this has to be done inside the loop so that the image lingers and it is updated in each
iteration.
So we're going to put it before the last line and we enter show score, which is the name of our function
and the parameters which are text X and text Y.
So our score should be ready.
Selects execute our program.
Our score is at zero and if I start shooting enemies, our score increases one, two and so on.
So it's working perfectly.
We could modify the size and or parameters.
So to change the font, as promised, you need to download one from any website and save it in a folder.
So I downloaded this one fastest.
It belongs to this site, but you can use any site you want.
You'll receive a zip file, which you just need to decompress inside the folder.
And that's it.
So now we can call fast test dot tx.
So let's go to where we set up the font over here.
And instead of free sounds bold, we put fast test tx.
So now we execute it and we see that our text has changed.
It wouldn't say.
I wouldn't say it's nicer, but it's different.
So you can use any font you want.
So what do you say if we add one more thing to our game?
Let's add some sound and program end when our character dies as he's caught by the enemies.
Let's go to the next lesson.